---
author: adam
date: '2007-06-30 21:05:16'
layout: post
slug: making-the-64-bit-jump-w-windows-xp-professional-x64
status: publish
title: Making the 64-bit Jump (w/ Windows XP Professional x64)
wordpress_id: '8'
categories:
- Tech
---

So I've had a copy of Windows XP Professional x64 for quite a while - I never
bothered to install it because all of my machines, except one, are 32-bit
only.  My main desktop has an older Athlon 64 (3500+) processor, but I
recently bumped up the RAM to 3GB for some photography and development work -
so I decided it was time to give the 64-bit world a try.  I'm not sure why
exactly, but after about 2 weeks of running x64, my machine is still blazing
fast.  With XP Pro 32-bit, my machine was really taking a while to startup and
would get bogged down quite easily.  I'm sure I have less software installed
on the machine now, but I have my main applications installed now and things
are quite nice.

I was a bit worried that some of my hardware wouldn't be supported under a
64-bit Windows OS (which is one reason I haven't been in a hurry to jump on
the Vista bandwagon...I know there is 32-bit Vista, but if I have a 64-bit
machine, I'm running a 64-bit OS...).  Anyway - the experience of getting
things up and running was really quite nice.  Some applications went and
installed just fine without any modification at all.  Others did require that
I download a 64-bit version of the installer (as the 32-bit installer refused
to run at all), but this was pretty painless.  Even my Brother multi-function
laser printer and my Garmin Legend C GPS device had 64-bit compatible drivers,
which was pretty surprising.  Interestingly enough, the only application I've
really had trouble with is Apple's iTunes.  I have the latest version of the
software and the install process went fine, but when it came time to sync my
iPod, I got all sorts of errors.  I ended up "restoring" (i.e. reformatting
basically) my iPod 3 times, disabling all syncing except music, and rebooting
a few times...now things "work".  I still get funky error messages every once
in a while, but my music plays on the PC and my iPod appears to have my music
again.  I noticed that Apple has a page saying 64-bit Windows (XP Pro and
Vista) aren't actually supported by iTunes at this time - which is kinda funny
because now I'm seeing quite a few posts from <strike>iBroke</strike> iPhone
owners that are upset that they can't sync the iPhone since they run 64-bit
OSes.

Anyway, I thought I would post my base application list in case anyone else is
curious about what works in the 64-bit world:

  * Adobe Photoshop CS2
  * Adobe Photoshop Lightroom v1.1
  * Microsoft Office 2003
  * Visual Studio 2005
  * Microsoft Virtual PC 2007 (* 64-bit installer required)
  * Garmin City Navigator v7 (* after 64-bit driver download for GPS unit)
  * Quicken 2006 Home and Business
  * Microsoft ActiveSync
  * Apple Safari (Beta 3)
  * Alcohol 52%
  * Mozilla Firefox

