---
author: adam
date: '2007-07-01 22:39:17'
layout: post
slug: money-choices
status: publish
title: Money Choices
wordpress_id: '9'
categories:
- Money
---

So I set a goal for myself at the beginning of 2007 - that goal was to be debt
free except the house by the end of the year.  (Yeah - I drank the [Dave
Ramsey kool-aid](http://www.daveramsey.com)...well, mostly at least...)  After
the first few months, I figured out how to trim my expenses even more and
figured out that I could actually pay off my student loans by my birthday (end
of September).  At the end of 2006, I paid off all credit cards and any other
foolishness I had - so I only have 3 "debt" items laying around these days:
student loans (~$15K total), 1st mortgage, and 2nd mortgage.

I'm on track to pay off my student loans by the end of September, but it's
really tempting to pay off the 2nd mortgage first.  Both are about the same
amount (second mortgage is a few thousand higher, but that just means waiting
a month or so to pay it off if I chose that route), but the interest rate on
my student loan is 4.25% while the second mortgage is at 8.25%.  Because of
that (and the terms around each loan), my student loan payment is $125 a month
and my 2nd mortgage is $190...so paying it off first would free up $190
instead of only $125.

But here's the catch (and the reason I'll probably still pay off the student
loans first) - in a worst case scenario, I could probably sell the house and
at least break even (if not, I wouldn't owe much).  In that case, both
mortgages would be taken care of, but the student loan will still be there.
No matter what happens (practically...there are a few legal things that I'm
going to ignore), I'm stuck with the student loan for up to 14 more years (the
remaining length of the loan).  It seems really risky to me to pay off the
second mortgage before the student loans.

Realistically, my plan would be to pay off the student loans first (just to
have them out of the way), buy some new camera equipment (as a celebration
type thing...and because I "need" it...), fill up the 5K for Roth IRA 2008,
then focus on knocking out my 2nd mortgage as quickly as possible.  If raises
go as usual next year at work, I can probably expect I would have the income
to do all of the above between now and Jan 1 2009.  It's just a question of
what else will happen between now and then.

Anyway - I'm 80% sure I'm going to go ahead and pay off the student loans as
planned, but it's still a hard choice because of the interest rates (and the
fact that I could invest it and do decently as well).  But when it comes down
to it, I've really liked not having credit card payments and it feels great
not to be paying on my everyday items anymore.  I can only imagine what it
will feel like to have the house paid off one day...  The really amazing thing
is that it's not *that* hard - oh, it's hard, but not *that* hard.  At the
very least, it's been interesting having to make all these choices now that I
have a "real world" income.

