---
author: adam
date: '2008-03-27 00:01:48'
layout: post
slug: new-addition-to-the-family-bought-a-macbook
status: publish
title: New Addition to the Family - Bought a MacBook
wordpress_id: '36'
categories:
- Tech
---

Well, I finally decided it is time for me to give Apple's OS X a try. I've
been interested in seeing how things work on an Apple system, but I haven't
really had a reason to buy an Apple machine. I still don't *really* have a
reason, but I do want to play around with the iPhone SDK since I have some
ideas I'd like to try out so I used that as an excuse to buy a MacBook.

I ended up going with a black 2.4 GHz Core 2 Duo version. It came with 2GB of
RAM, but that's not really enough since I want to run VMWare Fusion so that I
can have Visual Studio 2005/2008 running in unity mode as well as SQL Server
2005/2008. So I had the MacBook upgraded to 4GB DDR2 RAM. Apple wanted $400
extra to add 2GB, but I used Crucial memory and did the upgrade myself for a
grand total of $111 including tax & shipping. Not a bad deal since I
effectively saved nearly $300 by spending about 10 minutes swapping the RAM
sticks out.

So far, my impression of OS X is favorable. I've found replacements for
everything I typically used on Windows (except development tools and Quicken)
and I'm fairly happy with the way things work. For the first week or so, I
wasn't sure that I was ever going to like OS X, but it's one of those things
that grows on you. I wouldn't make the claim that a lot of people when they
say Macs are easier to use than Windows. I think usability (as a whole) is
pretty similar between the two. OS X does have some standards that most
applications seem to follow which is better than on Windows, but the big
difference is that the "graphic arts" background of historical Mac users has
resulted in software developers taking more time to refine the user experience
to the point that things are a bit more logical than they are in Windows-based
counterparts.

I'm really happy with the battery life on this thing. As long as I'm just
surfing the net, typing up blog posts, reading e-mail, and other light tasks,
I get fantastic battery life. I have a feeling even playing a DVD will still
result in good battery life, but it may not be the 4 or so hours I get now.
Time machine seems useful, although I keep forgetting to eject the disk before
I unplug the backup drive - so I think I'm going to end up getting the Time
Capsule before long, but I don't really want to spend that money right now.

The one thing that is slightly disappointing thus far is that the MacBook gets
a little choppy when playing World of Warcraft with everything maxed out. It's
not terrible and I do realize this machine has an integrated graphics card,
but WoW isn't *that* demanding...either way, it's still plenty playable, but
it's just a little disappointing that it's not as smooth as I'd like.

After I've used OS X for a few more weeks, I'll post my updated impressions,
but so far so good.

