---
author: adam
date: '2008-04-27 15:51:58'
layout: post
slug: new-theme-new-blogs
status: publish
title: New Theme, New Blogs
wordpress_id: '38'
categories:
- Life
---

**Wordpress 2.5 / New Theme**  
I just finished updating this blog to use the new Wordpress 2.5 engine. It's
really quite nice - everything on the admin side is much more refined that
before. The upgrade process is amazingly simple - you just upload the new
files, run upgrade.php, and in a minute or two (or longer if you have lots of
posts) you're ready to go. While I was doing the upgrade, I decide I would go
ahead and update the theme as well. I liked the last theme, but I saw a new
theme that looked a little better to me - so I just popped it in since I was
already messing around with the site anyway. It is a bit more streamlined than
the last one and more my style.

**New Blogs**  
Over the last week or so, I've been planning out some topics that I want to
blog about. I realize I haven't been actively blogging for a while now, but
part of that is because I can't decide what I want to include on this blog.
I'm always torn between putting all of my thoughts on this one blog or trying
to keep them on different blogs so that each blog has a particular topic. The
problem is that I would end up not posting at all. So, I have finally decided
I'm going to dedicate time each week (and perhaps more often) to blogging in
general and I have also decided I am creating more focused blogs going
forward. At this point in time, I'm going to start maintaining three different
blogs:

_AdamByram.com_

This blog will continue to be blog that is purely personal - more to
communicate with friends and such than anything else. If I have a topic that I
want to talk about that doesn't fit into either of the two new blogs, it'll
end up here.

_New Personal Finance Site_

I'll announce the name later once I finish getting things setup and get the
initial content loaded, but I'm creating a new site focused on providing
personal finance advice / observations for Generation Y. My generation has the
opportunity to do great things, but I keep hearing (and seeing) how so many in
this generation can't (or don't want) to manage money. To me, this is one of
the most important things someone can learn. Money isn't the key to happiness,
but it's one of those things what you need to understand and learn to use to
help you achieve your dreams. So I'm hoping my new site will prove useful to
people that want to start learning about personal finance, but don't want to
get bogged down in the technical details of it.

_New Software Development Site_

I'll announce the URL for this once it's up and running as well, but this will
be the place that all of my software development related ideas will go. At the
end of 2007, I started a new job at a software startup and I've had many
experiences there that I'd like to blog about (as far as what works, what
doesn't, and things I'm learning about). I've wanted to do a blog like this
for a long time, so we'll see how it goes, but I think it'll be fun.

**I Tweet**  
I have also started using Twitter. I seems like a nice way to stay on top of
the latest happenings, particularly in the software world. I don't tweet non-
stop or anything, but I try to tweet every now and then. I have my latest
tweets in the sidebar of this blog and you're welcome to follow me on Twitter
if you've like -
[http://www.twitter.com/adambyram/](http://www.twitter.com/adambyram).

That's all for now - more updates to come.

