---
author: adam
date: '2008-04-06 07:04:24'
layout: post
slug: first-thoughts-on-iphone-sdk
status: publish
title: First Thoughts on iPhone SDK
wordpress_id: '37'
categories:
- Tech
---

I just spent a few hours working on a small iPhone app using the Beta 2 iPhone
SDK and thought I would share my my initial thoughts. Keep in mind that this
is the first time I've tried programming for OS X period and I spend 99% of my
time programming in C# with Microsoft's Visual Studio.

Xcode itself is not even comparable to Visual Studio (I realize VS isn't free,
but even the free Express Editions are much, MUCH better than Xcode). I found
out how to turn on the autocomplete functionality in Xcode, but it's so
unhelpful that I may turn it back off since it seems to get in the way more
than it helps. I'm so accustomed to intellisense in VS - if you know nothing
about a library, you can use intellisense to get up and running in a flash
(usually), but not in Xcode. In Xcode, if you don't know the frameworks you're
using in and out, prepare to be checking out Safari constantly. The whole
Interface Builder application doesn't really make sense to me yet, so I won't
really comment on it yet. The error messages from Xcode have been fairly
useful so far, so that's a good thing. The editor is decent in that it color
codes syntax for you and it does have the ability to jump directly to specific
functions from a menu (very similar to VS on this one).

Perhaps the bigger issue for people coming from a non-OS X background is the
knowledge of all of the frameworks. It's not nearly as expansive as the .NET
framework, but it's quite different - so you're not going to be able to just
pick up the frameworks and hit the ground running. The documentation on
Apple's dev center isn't terrible...it takes a little bit to find what you
need, but it's usually there somewhere. The naming convention does make it
pretty clear what you're doing when calling a method, however, this is
realllllllly irritating without intellisense. I'm still trying to figure out
which classes do what and how to structure the View/Controllers in my
application. The sample apps are really helping out there. It does seem like I
have to write quite a bit of code for even fairly basic stuff. I just feel
really unproductive at this point..I know that's mostly the learning curve
that I'm working through, but I would have thought Apple would have a better
developer toolset in this day and age. I don't think the Objective-C language
will be that hard to pickup since it seems pretty logical once you get the
syntax for methods and method calls. The frameworks are going to take some
time and I'm sure things will still be changing between now and June, but
hopefully I'll get this stuff figured out soon so I can have my little app up
and running in the simulator.

